In the previous video, we have learned about
trunk.
Next in this video, we are going to create
one more topology,
let’s say we will create topology for room 3.
Let’s import a new switch.
But I will not use 2960 again, I will use
3560.
Actually this two switch is similar, but there
are some differences between this two switch.
We will talk more about the differences in
the next video.
Then now let’s add 4 pc like before.
To add some pc at once, here we can type ctrl
or control in the keyboard, click the pc,
release the control button and here we can
add some pc at once.
Now let’s change the name of the pc, here
the last pc is pc 10, so this will be pc 11,
pc 12, pc 13 and last pc 14.
Now let’s connecting the pc to the switch.
Here we also can use ctrl to add some cable
at once.
So type ctrl in the keyboard, click on the
cable, release the ctrl.
And now we can connecting all pc to the switch.
Okay, now let’s configure the vlan in the
switch.
Here we get a question, would you like to
enter the initial configuration?
We can choose no here.
Enable, and then configure terminal.
Let’s create the vlan first, vlan 10 the
name is accounting, and then vlan 20,
the name is marketing.
Let’s verify it.
Do show vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that now we have vlan
10 and vlan 20.
But all of the interface is still in the vlan 1.
Now let’s assign fa0/1 and fa0/4 to the
vlan 10.
If you remember in the previous video, we
can use interface range to assign some interface
to the vlan at once.
Let’s say here we want to assign fa0/1 and
fa0/2 to the vlan.
And if we use interface range fa0/1 until
4, so fa0/1, fa0/2, fa0/3,
fa0/4 will be assigned to the vlan.
But in this case, we only want to assign the
interface fa0/1 and fa0/4.
Because fa0/2 and fa0/3 is in the vlan 20.
To do this, we can use comma, so interface
range fa0/1, fa0/4 like this.
Then switchport mode access, switchport access
vlan 10.
Let’s verify it.
Do show vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that now fa0/1 and fa0/4
is in the vlan 10.
Next let’s assign fa0/2 and fa0/3 to vlan 20.
Interface range fa0/2-3.
Switchport mode access, switchport access
vlan 20.
Let’s verify it again, do show vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that now fa0/2 and fa0/3
is in the vlan 20.
Last, let’s configure the ip address of
all pc. Here for pc 11, the ip address is 192.168.1.11.
pc 12 the ip address is 192.168.1.12.
pc 13 the ip address is 192.168.1.13, and last, pc14
the ip address is 192.168.1.14.
Now let’s test the connection between pc
in the same vlan.
Let’s ping between pc in the vlan 10.
Okay successful, next let’s test between
pc in the vlan 20.
Okay this is also successful.
Okay I think enough for this video.
Here we already create a new topology for
room 3.
In the next video, we are going to connecting
this room 3 with room 1 and room 2.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.